European foreign ministers have persuaded Iran to suspend its programme to enrich uranium that may be used to make nuclear weapons, and to allow tougher inspections of its nuclear facilities. But sceptics fear this may merely be a delaying tactic

EPA

A productive tête à tête

IRAN’S ambitions to build nuclear weapons—denied by the Islamic state—have long been a source of concern on both sides of the Atlantic. However, America and Europe have not always been in complete agreement over what to do about it. President George Bush made his feelings clear when he linked Iran with Iraq and North Korea in his “axis of evil”. Britain, France and Germany, meanwhile, seemed to place more emphasis on dialogue. Nevertheless, officials on both sides of the Atlantic were cheered by Iran’s agreement, on Tuesday October 21st, to European requests that it stop enriching uranium and sign up to a protocol allowing a tougher inspection regime at its nuclear sites. As part of the agreement, a set of documents outlining what Iranian officials say is a full declaration of the country's nuclear activities was delivered to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna on Wednesday. A spokesman said it will take days for the agency to assess the report.

This is, however, clearly not the end of the saga, and sceptics in the Bush administration remain unconvinced. For one thing, the agreement is maddeningly vague. How long will the suspension of uranium enrichment last? (Worryingly, the key Iranian negotiator, Hassan Rowhani, said that the agreement is voluntary, “which means it could last for one day or one year”.) And how will the suspension of the enrichment be confirmed? If this has been decided, the Iranians aren’t telling anyone.
Mohamed ElBaradei's vision of a safer world
Oct 16th 2003
Iran's nuclear programme
Sep 18th 2003
Reining in Iran's nuclear ambitions
Sep 11th 2003
Iran's nuclear power
Aug 28th 2003
Iran’s and North Korea’s nuclear plans
Jul 21st 2003
Iran’s nuclear ambitions
Jul 8th 2003
The EU and weapons of mass destruction
Jun 19th 2003

Britain, France, Germany, Iran, Russia, United States

The European Union outlines its relations with Iran. IRNA, Iran's official news agency, presents the official line on news events. See also the Iranian presidency and the Foreign Ministry. The IAEA monitors Iran's nuclear programme. The US Department of State provides information on Iran and on non-proliferation. The White House publishes statements by the president. “Governments on the WWW” has resources on Iran's government and politics.

Aid for Iraq Oct 23rd 2003
Drugs in sport Oct 23rd 2003
The APEC summit Oct 21st 2003
Northern Ireland’s peace process Oct 21st 2003
Mutual-fund scandals Oct 20th 2003
The Buttonwood column Oct 21st 2003
About Global Agenda




Indeed, they have become more co-operative more out of necessity than choice. On September 12th, the board of the IAEA gave the country until October 31st to dispel doubts about its nuclear ambitions. This was after Iran was forced to confess, after years of denials, to having bought uranium-enrichment technology from abroad and to having experimented with some nuclear material (though it still vehemently denies ever enriching uranium for illegal purposes).

If Iran had not agreed to come clean, the agency would have reported it to the United Nations Security Council. The Bush administration made it clear that it would press for full economic sanctions in that event. These would have a crippling effect on Iran’s crumbling economy. Even Russia, which has been supplying Iran with nuclear technology (and whose president, Vladimir Putin, pointedly declined American requests to halt the programme) would have had difficulty in opposing such a move. Russia now wants new inspection rules in place before delivering nuclear fuel to the power plant it is building at Bushehr, on the Persian Gulf.

Apart from the many questions about Tuesday's agreement that remain unanswered, it will have no standing until ratified by Iran’s Supreme National Security Council. Some hardliners protested noisily outside the hall where the agreement was struck, claiming that the new protocol was “a source of shame for Iran”. Despite the past divisions between the Americans and Europeans on how to handle Iran, the country’s hardliners like to portray the Europeans as little more than American lackeys. However, Mr Rowhani, Iran's negotiator, is the secretary to the supreme council and was appointed by Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. This should ensure that the protocol will be ratified, however unpalatable that may be.

However hopeful this agreement may be, it can only be a temporary respite. Writing in the current issue of The Economist, Mohamed ElBaradei, the director-general of the IAEA, warned that: “Should a state with a fully developed fuel-cycle capability decide...to break away from its non-proliferation commitments, most experts believe it could produce a nuclear weapon within a matter of months.” Under the nuclear non-proliferation treaty itself, countries have to give only 90 days notice to withdraw. With so much technology at its fingertips, and with its hardliners so influential, Iran’s nuclear ambitions will continue to be a headache for America and its allies.

Stiff discipline for boys' Viagra prank
Thu 23 October, 2003 12:14 BST

LONDON (Reuters) - Six schoolboys have been rushed to hospital after taking the erection-enhancing drug Viagra at lunchtime for a dare, the school says.

Forest School in Winnersh, southern England said paramedics were called after a fellow student told teachers about the 13-year-olds' prank.

"It is believed that a pupil brought the tablets in from home into the all-boys school and shared them with five friends," the local education authority said in a statement.

The Sun newspaper quoted a source at the school as saying: "By the time the afternoon lessons began, there was no hiding what they had done."

Paramedics took the six squirming boys to the nearby Royal Berkshire Hospital, where they were monitored until the effects wore off.

"The school has a strict no drugs policy and a pupil will be temporarily excluded for actions which placed other pupils at risk," the education authority added.

New method to be used in cervical screening
By Jeremy Laurance Health Editor

23 October 2003

The biggest shake-up of the national cervical cancer screening programme, launched in 1989, was announced yesterday with a more accurate method and extra tests for younger women.

The standard Pap smear test for cervical cancer is 60 years old. It is to be replaced by a new technique, which trials show is better at diagnosing potential cancers.

The new method will spare hundreds of thousands of women unnecessary discomfort and anxiety because fewer tests will have to be repeated. About 3.9 million women are screened in England each year and up to 300,000 have to be recalled for further tests.

For the Pap smear test, a nurse uses a disposable spatula to take a sample of cells from the cervix, which are then smeared on to a slide for examination in the laboratory. But in one in ten cases, the smear is inadequate, causing anxiety for the woman and extra work for the health service when she is recalled for a repeat test.

The new technique of liquid- based cytology (LBC) involves taking the sample of cells using a brush-like device rather than a spatula. The head of the device is then rinsed or broken off into a vial of preservative fluid so that most of the cervical cells are retained for examination in the laboratory.

Medical trials in four English hospitals demonstrated the improved accuracy of the new technique, with a reduction in the rate of inadequate smears from 9.7 per cent to less than 2 per cent. It was recommended by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (Nice).

Melanie Johnson, Public Health minister, told a cancer conference in London yesterday that the new test would be rolled out across England over the next five years. The national screening programme said the cost would be £10m.

The frequency of screening, currently offered every five years to women aged 20-64, will also be increased. Younger women, aged 25 to 49, will be invited every three years for a test. Women aged 50 to 64 will continue their current five year screening pattern.

But women under 25 are to be excluded from the programme because of the low rate of cancer in this age group, a high rate of false positive results and the failure of the screening programme to reduce cancer in this group.

Professor Peter Sasieni, of Cancer Research UK, said that, in 2002, only five deaths from cervical cancer were diagnosed in women aged 15-24, with 26 cases overall.

Ms Johnson also announced the next stage in the introduction of a national bowel cancer screening programme with 10 extra centres for training staff.

"Patients will find that the services are more convenient and waiting times are reduced as a result of the increased numbers of staff who are trained to carry out this procedure," she explained. 
“Peace in our time”
Oct 23rd 2003 | NAIVASHA, KENYA
From The Economist print edition


Fingers crossed, Sudan's terrible war is inching closer to an end

COLIN POWELL, America's secretary of state, took a two-hour break this week to drop in on Sudan's peace talks. Apparently, that was long enough. On October 22nd, for the first time, the Sudanese government and southern rebels agreed to a deadline (the end of the year) for signing a power-sharing pact to end the world's longest-running civil war. The conflict, said John Garang, the rebel leader, will be over by Christmas. At Mr Powell's press conference in Naivasha, the Kenyan town where the talks are taking place, rebels and government officials grinned, applauded and even hugged.

Sudan has been at war, on and off, for half a century. The current conflict has lasted 20 years and claimed perhaps 2m lives. Previous vaunted “breakthroughs” have proven illusory. This time, however, there is cause for real hope—despite the lack of trust between the government, dominated by Arab Muslim radicals from the north of the country, and the Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA), who are mostly black African animists and Christians from the south. Last month, the two sides agreed on a formula to address each other's security fears during a proposed six-year transition period before a referendum is held, offering southerners a chance to secede.

Fumbling towards peace in Sudan
May 15th 2003

Wars




Under this agreement, the SPLA has neither to disarm nor disband. The government is to withdraw 80% of its troops from the south, and a new force is to be set up, under joint control. This should lay the foundation for a comprehensive peace deal. “Peace in Our Time,” bellowed the inaugural edition of the Sudan Mirror, the south's first newspaper, without irony.

Mr Powell's trip was designed to chivvy the negotiators over the last few hurdles. He insisted that they should keep talking through Ramadan, the Muslim fasting month. The head of the government's delegation, Vice-President Ali Osman Taha, reportedly stormed out in fury, but eventually returned.

Mr Powell is offering to lift American-imposed sanctions on the Sudanese government when the deal is signed, while threatening to aid the SPLA if the government drags its heels. If all goes well, the United States is also expected to remove Sudan from its list of states that sponsor terrorism, appoint an ambassador to Khartoum and dole out several million dollars to help rebuild the ruined country.

The SPLA and the government still have to work out exactly how to share power. The status of Khartoum, the capital, is one tricky issue. Southerners want it to be secular, not only so they can imbibe something stronger than hibiscus cordial, but also so that they no longer suffer discrimination in legal disputes with Muslims. The government insists that the city must remain under sharia (Islamic law).

Another problem is what to do with three northern regions—the Nuba Mountains, the Southern Blue Nile and Abyei—which the SPLA insists are spiritually southern, and which fought alongside it for much of the civil war. Both sides have signalled a desire to compromise on the first two of these areas, which will probably get limited autonomy. But Abyei is tougher, because oil was recently discovered there. The SPLA wants Khartoum to honour a pledge it made in 1972, offering Abyei a referendum on whether to join the north or the south. Khartoum says no.

Sudan's oil, which lies mostly in the south but is mostly controlled by the government, has for years inflamed the war. It paid for the government's arms and gave both sides an extra reason to fight. But now, at last, they seem close to agreement on how to share the oil revenues. This plainly makes sense.

The struggle between the SPLA and the government is not the only one in Sudan, however. Since February, aid agencies reckon that some 300,000 people have fled fighting between the government and a separate group of rebels in Darfur, in the west of the country. But the government makes it hard for anyone to report on this conflict, so details are scarce.



Thorpe Steadies England

From Myles Hodgson, PA Sport Cricket Correspondent, Dhaka

Graham Thorpe utilised his experience of the Sub-continent’s unique challenges to re-assure England both on and off the pitch during an eventful third day of the inaugural Test against Test minnows Bangladesh.

Having enjoyed great success during previous tours to Pakistan, Sri Lanka and India, the 34-year-old left-hander is something of an expert inside the tourists’ dressing room when it comes to cricket matters in this part of the world and his advice is regularly sought by the younger members of the tour squad.

That knowledge will have been invaluable over the course of the day, which not only resulted in England recording the lowest ever all-out total by a touring team in a Bangladesh Test but also featured a controversial climax to the day following a floodlight failure.

But far from becoming concerned by a day which went nothing like England would have liked, Thorpe was a reassuring picture of composure as the tourists re-grouped and attempted to force home an important victory.

The Surrey batsman had already demonstrated his expertise with a determined 64 in difficult conditions which could not prevent England slumping to 295 all out and thus eclipsing the 296 registered by West Indies at Chittagong last year.

But perhaps his biggest gift to England’s younger squad members was his laidback attitude to the floodlight failure which caused the premature halt to the day’s play shortly after Bangladesh had lost a wicket and slumped to 12 for one having already conceded a 92-run first-innings deficit.

While Bangladesh’s batsmen understandably took the offer of the light, England registered their disappointment at having their momentum halted by staying as a team out in the middle – an action which could have been interpreted as a protest.

Thorpe and the other senior players, though, will have taken the opportunity to remind their younger contemporaries that this is just a normal day on the Sub-continent and conspiracy theories should be discarded quickly.

“We stayed out in the middle because we thought they would be back on pretty quickly but didn’t so we had a little chat about how they day had gone and we’ll come back tomorrow with our heads up,” explained Thorpe.

“You have hard days on the Sub-continent and some of us have been here before and realised that and tomorrow will be another one for us.

“We’d have loved to have have picked up two or three wickets tonight and set Bangladesh back – it’s unfortunate but we certainly would not believe that anything had gone on behind the scenes.”

While Thorpe may have explained away the power failure, which also affected the lights inside the dressing room but did not seem to disrupt other areas of the ground, England’s failure to build on a promising position overnight may not be as easily understood.

Resuming on 111 without loss trailing Bangladesh by only 92 runs, the tourists would have expected to progress towards a commanding first-innings lead and take control of the first ever Test meeting between the two countries.

Despite facing opponents who have yet to taste victory after 25 Tests and have lost all but one of them, England struggled against inexperienced spinners Mohammad Rafique and 16-year-old debutant Enamul Haque Junior.

Rafique began a slump of three wickets for three runs in 18 balls by bowling Michael Vaughan when he mis-timed a sweep for 48, continuing a run of nine Test innings without a half-century since becoming captain.

Experienced pair Mark Butcher and Nasser Hussain departed for ducks and although Marcus Trescothick successfully progressed to his fifth Test century, so complete was his mastery of the attack and the conditions after hitting 113 from 194 balls, that his untimely departure when he was caught sweeping also set back England’s cause.

Both Rikki Clarke and Gareth Batty kept Thorpe company during his innings lasting nearly four hours, but conditions made scoring difficult and England’s last seven wickets fell for 120 runs in only 40 overs.

“It was hard work out there – I never thought I was anywhere near being fluent,” explained Thorpe, who hit a six and seven fours during his stay at the crease.

“You never expect an easy ride when you go into someone else’s country to play a cricket match. We’ve had a hard day today and it didn’t go exactly the way we wanted to but Bangladesh did well and nearly a hundred lead is a good effort.

“The pitch is hard going out there, it’s difficult to get fluent on. Marcus has played exceptionally well but the rest of us have not had as much time out in the middle as we would have liked and we had to scrap pretty hard.”

Having battled their way to a decent but anything but decisive advantage, fast bowler Steve Harmison picked up where he left off in the previous innings when he attempted to build on his first five-wicket haul.

Harmison induced opener Rajin Saleh into fending a short ball behind to wicketkeeper Chris Read but only two more deliveries were allowed before the umpires offered the bad light following the floodlight failure and halted England’s momentum.
 	
Printable page

E-mail this
Get e-mail alerts
Passing the hat
Oct 23rd 2003
From The Economist Global Agenda


Representatives from more than 70 countries are meeting in Madrid to discuss aid for rebuilding Iraq. Their pledges are likely to fall far short of the tens of billions America needs


EVERYONE knows America needs a lot of money to put Iraq back together again, but how much exactly? The World Bank, the United Nations and American officials in Iraq collectively put the estimate at $55 billion from 2004 through 2007 (about the size of Saudi Arabia’s annual budget). America itself is expected to stump up $20 billion, leaving $35 billion to be collected from other sources. That is why officials from more than 70 countries are gathering in Madrid on Thursday October 23rd for a two-day conference on aid to Iraq (convened by America, the European Union, the UN, the International Monetary Fund and a few others). America’s secretary of state, Colin Powell, fresh from peace talks in Sudan, will head Washington's delegation, along with treasury secretary John Snow. They will try to persuade other countries to put aside their worries about America’s occupation of Iraq, and allocate billions to help fix roads and hospitals there.
America, Iraq and the UN
Oct 17th 2003
Dealing with Iraq's debts
Oct 16th 2003
Turkey and Iraq
Oct 10th 2003
Iraq's delayed reconstruction
Oct 2nd 2003
George Bush and Iraq
Sep 26th 2003
America, Iraq and the UN
Sep 25th 2003
America and Iraq
Sep 15th 2003
The soaring costs of policing and rebuilding Iraq
Sep 3rd 2003
Debt and reparations in Iraq
May 15th 2003

Britain, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Turkey, United States

The White House reports on Mr Bush's efforts to secure funds at the donor conference. See also the US State Department's Iraq information. The UN, the World Bank and the IMF post information on Iraq. The EU's foreign affairs department gives the EU's policies. Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs posts its statements on Iraq. The Coalition Provisional Authority oversees the coalition's reconstruction efforts.

Iran’s nuclear ambitions Oct 23rd 2003
Drugs in sport Oct 23rd 2003
The APEC summit Oct 21st 2003
Northern Ireland’s peace process Oct 21st 2003
Mutual-fund scandals Oct 20th 2003
The Buttonwood column Oct 21st 2003
About Global Agenda




Some pledges have already trickled in. The most generous has been Japan's, which last week promised $1.5 billion for Iraq next year, and may announce further gifts in Madrid. Canada and the European Union say they will donate around $200m and $235m respectively next year. Britain, America’s chief ally, has promised $900m over three years. Another $300m will come from the conference's host, Spain. The World Bank is considering lending up to $5 billion. Iraq’s oil will help make up a good chunk of the shortfall, providing billions more.

America wants to see more generosity. France and Germany, two of the EU’s three biggest economies, have said they will help train Iraqi soldiers but are reluctant to add big money to the EU’s offer. Their leaders strongly opposed the war and are well aware that their budget deficits have already ballooned beyond what is allowed by EU rules. Small countries eager to befriend America may give money, but the amounts will not be big. Whether pledges at the conference will reach $4.5 billion—the amount offered last year at a similar conference for Afghanistan—remains to be seen. There is also the uncomfortable fact that pledges do not always turn into real money.

Why are the potential givers so wary? Despite the unanimous passing of a UN resolution on Iraq last week, few countries are keen on America’s enterprise there. The resolution conferred a measure of symbolic sovereignty on the Iraqi Governing Council, authorised a multinational force to patrol Iraq and gave the council until December 15th to publish a timetable for the transfer of power and the holding of elections. All this was intended to placate countries that say America is being too heavy-handed and is not ceding authority to Iraqis as fast as it should. America has also tried to mollify countries’ concerns by allowing the creation of a fund, administered by the UN and World Bank, that will disburse countries’ donations separately from the American-led coalition. Even so, few countries have spare billions lying around. Moreover, some consider the recent concessions by America as simply window-dressing and remain unwilling to furnish money and troops. (On the military front, Turkey has been an exception, offering as many as 10,000 troops—but the Governing Council has said that these are unwelcome.)

America’s Congress has not helped matters by its own reluctance to foot the Iraq bill. Last week, both the House and the Senate passed a bill authorising $87m in extra spending in Iraq and Afghanistan. The bulk of that spending will support American troops on the ground, while $20 billion would go towards reconstruction costs. But the Senate, with an eye to constituents who are concerned about overspending on Iraq and America’s mounting budget deficit, voted to make half of that $20 billion a loan rather than a grant. George Bush is threatening to veto the final version of the bill if it retains this provision, according to the New York Times.

The Senate’s move highlights Iraq’s other money problem: its enormous pre-war debt. The country may owe as much as $350 billion to other governments, commercial banks and multilateral lenders (see article). America is lobbying for that debt to be forgiven. Under the terms of the bill passed by the Senate, its $10 billion loan would become a grant only if 90% of Iraq’s other debt were written off.


Zope4Intranets Training

Zope Corporation is revolutionizing the software industry with a new approach to software acquisition that eliminates many of the traditional challenges. Zope4Intranets (Z4I) provides visible source software to attendees of an intensive four-day hands-on course conducted by expert Zope engineers. The license to the software allows attendees to use Z4I within their organization on as many servers and CPUs as required and it may serve as many users and hits as required as well. Maintenance and support are packaged and priced separately.

Zope4Intranets is a robust, enterprise-class intranet based on the Zope application server, the Zope Content Management Framework (CMF) and supporting technologies.
Capabilities/Features

Zope4Intranets is a comprehensive intranet application consisting of the following modules:

    * Partitionable contact directory (for employees, vendors, customers, etc.) with support for LDAP

    * Robust authentication and authorization capabilities based on the contact directory

    * Configurable/skinnable interfaces for retail and administrative interfaces

    * Document management/handling/sharing/publication with extensible metadata, version control and edit-lock mechanisms

    * Integration with Zope ExternalEditor to allow the use of best-of-breed content editing applications on the client

    * WebFolders (aka WebDAV-based document publishing)

    * Ability to publish content objects (e.g., documents) based on metadata values

    * Task, event and calendar management with support for delegation

    * Site-wide and scope-constrained search engine for both full-text and fielded queries

    * Project team portals

    * Group polls

    * Announcements

    * Discussions

    * Link management

    * Online help

Subsequent Versions

Zope Corporation and its Z4I customers will continue to aggressively innovate and enhance the product. The development roadmap for Zope4Intranets includes the following capabilities:

    * Wireless access

    * Integration with the Mailman mailing list management application

    * Integration with instant messaging services

    * Synchronization with desktop applications

    * Expense reports

    * Purchase requisition workflow

    * Travel request workflow

    * Site-wide notification services (e.g., subscribe to the addition, modification or deletion of content items)

    * Customer Relationship Management functionality

    * Sales Force Automation functionality

Zope Corporation reserves the right to cancel a Z4I Training class with a minimum of thirty days notice to registered students. If Zope Corporation cancels a Z4I Training course all fees paid will be refunded.

For additional information, or to purchase a license, please contact sales@zope.com or call 1-540-361-1710.

Overview

Zope is a next-generation Open Source application server and portal toolkit developed by Zope Corporation and a large active community of users. It runs on nearly all UNIX platforms as well as Windows NT and can be used with most popular web servers or its own built in web server. Zope is written (and extensible with) Python, a powerful object-oriented programming language, with performance sensitive components written in C.

Unlike common file-based Web templating systems such as ASP or PHP, Zope is a highly object-oriented Web development platform that covers much more of the problem domain for Web application developers. It provides clean separation of data, logic and presentation, an extensible set of built-in objects and a powerful integrated security model. The Zope infrastructure relieves the developer of most of the onerous details of Web application development such as data persistence, data integrity and access control, allowing you to focus on the problem at hand.

Zope provides all of the necessary tools to integrate data and content from nearly any source into powerful, coherent and maintainable Web applications:

    *

      Through-the-Web management
    *

      Integrated access control
    *

      Content management
    *

      Enterprise data access
    *

      Built-in search tools
    *

      Powerful data sharing
    *

      Safe delegation

One of the things that sets Zope apart from other application servers is that it was designed from the start to be tightly coupled not only with the Web object model, but also the Web development model. Today's successful Web applications require the participation of many people across an organization who have different areas of expertise. Zope is specifically designed to accommodate this model, allowing site managers to safely delegate control to design experts, database experts and content managers.
The Web Application Platform

The technology that would become Zope was founded on the realization that the Web is fundamentally object-oriented. A URL to a Web resource is really just a path to an object in a containment hierarchy, and the HTTP protocol provides a way to send messages to that object and receive its response.

Zope was designed from the ground up to reflect the object model of the Web. Objects in Zope are hierarchical, and represent familiar concepts such as Folders, Documents, Images or SQL Queries. URLs map naturally to objects in the hierarchical Zope environment based on their names. For example, the URL "/Marketing/index.html" would be used to access the Document object named "index.html" located in the Folder object named "Marketing".

To create and work with Zope objects, you use your Web browser to access the Zope management interface. All management and application development can be done completely through the Web using only a browser. The Zope management interface provides a familiar Windows Explorer-like view of the Zope object system. Through the management interface a developer can create and script Zope objects or even define new kinds of objects, without requiring access to the file system of the web server.


Fig. 1 - The Zope management interface

Objects can be dropped in anywhere in the object hierarchy. Site managers can work with their objects by clicking on tabs that represent different "views" of an object. These views vary depending on the type of object. A document template (DTML Document), for example, has an "Edit" tab which allows you to edit the document's source, while a Database Connection object provides views that let you modify the connection string or caching parameters for the object. All objects also have a "Security" view that allows you to manage access control settings for that object.


Fig. 2 - Edit view of a DTML Document object

Zope objects are stored in a high-performance transactional object database that can use either the filesystem or an RDBMS as its backing store. Each Web request is treated as a separate transaction by the object database. If an error occurs in your application during a request, any changes made during the request will be automatically rolled back. The object database also provides multi-level undo, allowing a site manager to "undo" changes to the site with the click of a button. The Zope framework makes all of the details of persistence and transactions totally transparent to the application developer.
Content Management

At the heart of Zope is DTML (Document Template Markup Language), a powerful variable insertion and expression language that provides "safe scripting" of Zope objects and dynamic content generation. DTML uses a server-side-include syntax that should look familiar to many Web developers, and it is highly integrated with the Zope security model. The security integration makes it possible to let less privileged users write their own DTML without compromising the security of the site.

Basic variable insertion and conditional testing with DTML is very straightforward. DTML code can use properties and methods of objects in the Zope system as well as Web request and form variables. This example displays the title property of the document being accessed, and a special message if a particular user is logged in:

      The title of this document is: <!--#var document_title-->.
      <p>
      <!--#if "AUTHENTICATED_USER=='Fred'"-->
        Hello Fred!
      <!--#else-->
        Hello stranger!
      <!--#/if-->

Of course, DTML Documents in Zope can also include the content of other DTML Documents. To implement a common design across your web site, you could use two DTML Documents that define your common page header and footer and simply include them in your site content:

      <!--#var standard_html_header-->

      <h2>Welcome to our site!</h2>

      <!--#var standard_html_footer-->

DTML also provides powerful iterative insertion using the "in" tag, which makes it easy to iterate over sequences of objects. The "in" tag can also automatically manage "batch" operations (such as iterating over search results over multiple web requests). This example calls an SQL query object and builds a table by iterating over the resulting record objects:

      <table>
      <!--#in getEmployees-->
      <tr>
        <td><!--#var first_name--></td>
        <td><!--#var last_name--></td>
        <td><!--#var job_title--></td>
        <td><!--#var hire_date--></td>
      <!--#/in-->
      </table>

Using these and many more advanced DTML constructs, Web developers can call SQL queries, create new objects, manipulate object properties and build highly dynamic site content. Here is a more advanced example using the DTML sendmail tag, which allows you to send email from DTML code. This example handles a feedback form, sending an email containing the users name and comments:

      <!--#var standard_html_header-->

      <!--#sendmail smtphost="mailsrv.mydomain.com">
      To: Feedback Department <feedback@mydomain.com>
      From: Feedback Form <ff@mydomain.com>
      Subject: User Feedback

      <!--#var name--> writes:

      <!--#var comments-->

      <!--#/sendmail-->

      <h2>Thanks!</h2>
      <p>
      Thanks for your feedback!
      </p>

      <!--#var standard_html_footer-->

A key concept of "safe scripting" is that unlike some other templating systems, DTML does not allow you to create blocks of arbitrary script code that could compromise the security of your server. Instead, Zope provides a different kind of object called an External Method that encapsulates more complex scripting and can contain arbitrary code. DTML authors can call External Methods from DTML to use their services, but the External Methods themselves are Zope objects in their own right that have their own security settings. This gives a site manager the ability to selectively provide extended services to DTML authors without necessarily allowing them to run arbitrary code on the server.

In most cases DTML alone is all that is needed to accomplish common tasks, and the more advanced DTML tags provided by Zope tend to reduce the need for complex scripting. An example of this is the "tree" tag, which lets you easily create expandable HTML tree controls like the one used in the left-hand frame of the Zope management interface. A comprehensive DTML user's guide is available in several formats on the Zope web site.
Data Access

Zope provides a consistent object oriented way to access all kinds of enterprise data. Data sources can include RDBMS data as well as non- relational data from sources such as LDAP or IMAP servers. Zope supports most common relational databases, including Oracle, Sybase, MySQL and ODBC compliant databases.

To access back end data, you drop in a Database Connection object for the type of database you are using, then begin creating SQL Method objects (queries) that use the connection. DTML can be used in SQL Methods, making it easy to build dynamic queries based on form variables or the request environment. The source for this SQL Method named "getTasks", for example, selects records from a "tasks" table based on the identity of the logged in user:

      select * from tasks
      where
      emp_id='<!--#var AUTHENTICATED_USER-->'


The results of this query can now be used in a DTML Document, which simply calls the query object and iterates over the results:

      <h2><!--#var AUTHENTICATED_USER-->'s tasks</h2>
      <table>
      <!--#in getTasks-->
      <tr>
        <td><!--#var title--></td>
        <td><!--#var due_date--></td>
      </tr>
      <!--#/in-->
      </table>

The object-centric design of Zope allows you to enforce a clean separation of data and presentation. Database programmers can work on SQL Method objects, while content managers can simply call the SQL Methods and use the results in their content. This object model makes it easy to integrate data from multiple data sources. Advanced data access features even allow you to define object behavior for database results, turning flat relational records into "smart data" in your Zope application.

Another benefit of development in the Zope environment is that the Zope transaction model can automatically extend into your back-end database. If your relational database supports transactions, Zope will automatically begin a transaction before running SQL Methods on a database connection, and it will automatically commit the transaction at the end of a successful Web request. If an error occurs during the request the transaction will automatically be rolled back, making transactional integrity totally transparent to the Web developer.
Integrated Searching

Zope provides fast, flexible indexing and searching with drop-in ZCatalog objects. ZCatalogs provide allows highly configurable full-text and fielded indexing of any kind of object on a Zope site. The objects can be indexed by their "content" as well as by their properties, which makes it easy to provide structured searches such as searches by author or by object type.

This object approach to indexing makes it possible to build fully searchable Web sites that integrate data from many different sources. Instead of a basic list of documents, search results from a Zope site might include documents, email message objects from a mailing list, records pulled from a relational database or resources from an LDAP directory.
Data sharing

One of the most powerful aspects of Zope is its simple but sophisticated data sharing model. This model is known as "Acquisition", and the core concept is simply that:

    *

      Zope objects are contained inside other objects (such as Folders).
    *

      Objects can "acquire" properties, content and behavior from their containers.

Acquisition is probably best demonstrated by example. Earlier, we decided to encapsulate our site-wide header and footer into separate DTML Documents that would be included in other site content. This design would quickly break down if we had to add a copy of the header and footer to every Folder on the site so that our content documents could use them. Acquisition allows us to avoid this problem; we can create the header and footer in the top-level Folder of the site, and DTML Documents defined at lower levels in the hierarchy will automatically "acquire" them from above when needed.

The concept of acquisition works with all Zope objects, and provides an extremely powerful way to centralize common resources. A commonly used SQL query, for example, can be defined in one Folder and objects in subfolders can use it automatically through acquisition. If the query needs to be changed, you can change it in one place without worrying about all of the subobjects that use the query.

Because objects are acquired by starting at the current level in the containment hierarchy and searching upward, it is easy to specialize areas of your site with a minimum of work. If, for example, you had a Folder named "Sports" on your site containing sports-related content, you could create a new header and footer document in the Sports Folder that use a sports-related theme. Content in the Sports folder and its subfolders will then use the specialized sports header and footer found in the "Sports" folder rather than the header and footer from the top-level folder on the site.

The uses of acquisition could fill several articles itself. For the purposes of a high-level overview however, the important point is that acquisition provides a simple and powerful way to avoid redundant data and vastly increase the maintainability of a site.
Safe Delegation

A successful Web site requires the collaboration of many people people in an organization: application developers, SQL experts, content managers and often even the end users of the application. On a conventional Web site, maintenance and security can quickly become problematic. How much control do you give to the content manager? How does giving the content manager a login affect your security? What about that SQL code embedded in the ASP files he'll be working on - code that probably exposes your database login?

Zope addresses these issues with its strong object-based design that enforces separation of data and presentation, and a flexible security model designed specifically to handle the unique business models of the Web.

Zope manages users with "User Folders", which are special folders that contain user information. Several Zope add-ons are available that provide extended types of User Folders that get their user data from external sources such as relational databases or LDAP directories.

Objects in Zope provide a much richer set of possible permissions than a conventional file-based system. Permissions vary by object type based on the capabilities of that object. This makes it possible to implement fine-grained access control. For example, you can set access control so that content managers can call SQL Methods, but not change them or even view their source. You can also set restrictions so that a user can only create certain kinds of objects, for instance Folders and DTML Documents but not SQL Methods or other objects.

In addition to strong encapsulation and security, Zope also provides other useful collaboration features. In addition to Web-based access, Zope natively supports other protocols such as FTP, WebDAV and XML-RPC. This standards-based approach allows users to work with Zope using existing Web authoring tools.

With all this collaboration going on of course, something will eventually go wrong. But when it does, instead of running for the backup tape the site manager can simply use the Zope management interface to undo changes to the site back to a point before the problem started. And to avoid that kind of problem altogether users can work in "Versions", which are private views of the object system.

Changes made in a Version are only visible to other users working in that Version and don't affect the public view of the site. When the changes made in a Version are finished and tested the user can "commit" the Version, instantly publishing the changes to the public view of the site.
XML Support

A hot topic in the application server market today is XML support. So how does Zope stack up? In addition to built-in support for XML-based protocols such as WebDAV and XML-RPC, Zope comes with a fast C-based XML parser that can be used by Zope application developers and the Zope object database itself can be exported to an XML format. A prototype "XML Document" add-on is also available that allows a user to upload an XML document into Zope, where the document is automatically parsed and its elements stored as individual Zope objects. This makes it possible to use DTML to generate reports on element subsets or to index individual elements for searching.

Related to XML, Zope includes support for the Document Object Model API, which allows developers to work with Zope objects in either DTML or Python code using familiar DOM calls. Future XML support based on ongoing projects will likely include native XSL processing and the ability to search Zope object hierarchies using XQL (XML Query Language).
More Information

Zope is highly extensible, and advanced users can create new kinds of Zope objects, either by writing new Zope add-ons in Python or by building them completely through the Web. The Zope software provides a number of useful built-in components to help extension authors, including a robust set of framework classes that take care of most of the details of implementing new Zope objects.

A number of Zope add-on products are available that provide features like drop-in Web discussion topics, desktop data publishing, XML tools and e-commerce integration. Many of these products have been written by the highly active members of the Zope community, and most are also Open Source.

Zope Corporation, the publisher of Zope, offers a range of consulting and technical support services for Zope, including an enterprise option for high scalability / high availability Web sites.

More information, documentation and software distributions for Zope and many add-on products are available at the Zope Web site at www.zope.org. There are also several mailing lists for Zope users and developers that are a great place to find out more about Zope.


Liberalising trade and investment were supposed to top the agenda of the APEC summit in Thailand this week. But George Bush has other things on his mind


THE Thai authorities ensured that security was tight outside the Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation (APEC) summit, which closed on Tuesday October 21st. But they and many of their neighbouring countries had hoped to leave security issues at the (heavily guarded) door. APEC’s charter is rooted in economics, and many of its members wanted this summit to focus on trade, not terrorism; on the WTO, not WMD. They did not have their way. On Friday, President George Bush was in Japan, talking about Iraq. The next day, he was in the Philippines, talking about terrorism. And from the moment he arrived in Bangkok on Saturday night, halfway through his six-nation tour of Asia, he talked about little other than North Korea.

North Korea wants nuclear weapons. Or, to be precise, it is acting like a regime that wants nuclear weapons, and intends to carry on doing so until America rewards it with a non-aggression treaty, diplomatic recognition and help with its energy needs. In the past year, the North has prompted a string of diplomatic crises by enriching uranium, expelling inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), extricating itself from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and extracting plutonium (despite a 1994 agreement to freeze plutonium production). In April, Pyongyang told the Americans that it already had one or two bombs. Now, it claims to have reprocessed enough plutonium for five or six more.
The Koreas
Oct 15th 2003
Trade in South-East Asia
Oct 8th 2003
The Buttonwood column
Sep 30th 2003
Manufacturing and politics
Sep 25th 2003
Exchange rates
Sep 24th 2003
Dealing with North Korea
Sep 4th 2003
North Korean talks
Aug 29th 2003
North Korea makes a disarming gesture
Aug 7th 2003

Australia, China, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, United States

The White House reports on Mr Bush's trip. APEC gives up-to-date news from its annual meeting and provides links to member countries' information. The US State Department also gives news from the APEC meeting and gives information on North Korea. KCNA, North Korea's official news agency, posts the government's line. Japan's foreign ministry gives information on North Korea. The International Atomic Energy Agency monitors North Korea's nuclear programme. The Federation of American Scientists has background information on the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and resources on North Korea's weapons of mass destruction. ASEAN posts a statement on its “Bali Concord II” and gives information on trade policies, external relations and its member countries. The Institute for International Economics conducts research on economic-policy issues. The WTO publishes annual reports both on world trade, which includes recent regional trade agreements, and on international trade statistics.

Iran’s nuclear ambitions Oct 23rd 2003
Aid for Iraq Oct 23rd 2003
Drugs in sport Oct 23rd 2003
Northern Ireland’s peace process Oct 21st 2003
Mutual-fund scandals Oct 20th 2003
The Buttonwood column Oct 21st 2003
About Global Agenda




In August, Kim Jong Il, North Korea’s president, was persuaded to enter into six-way talks in Beijing with America, China, South Korea, Japan and Russia. With all of the same players, except North Korea, assembled together in Bangkok, Mr Bush took the opportunity to revive this diplomatic quintet and redouble the pressure on Pyongyang. On Sunday, he once again ruled out a non-aggression treaty with North Korea. But he raised the possibility that he might find another, less formal, way to assure North Korea that America and its key allies in the region had no intention of attacking it. In return, North Korea would have to show that it had abandoned its nuclear ambitions. But its climbdown could perhaps proceed step by step, in tandem with, rather than in advance of, reciprocal gestures by the United States.

On Monday, Mr Bush issued a joint statement with Roh Moo-hyun, South Korea’s president, calling for the six-way talks to be resumed. The American president's new show of flexibility gives North Korea little excuse not to attend. It also, according to Ralph Cossa, head of the Pacific Forum of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, sends a message to South Korea and China, alarmed by the Bush administration's taste for talking tough, and to hardliners in Mr Bush's own government, who are loth to grease the axis of evil in any way.

North Korea's response was both prompt and provocative. As the APEC leaders' summit began on Monday, it test-fired an anti-ship missile with a range of about 60 miles (100km). As the summit drew to a close on Tuesday, it fired another, according to reports from Japan's Self-Defence Agency. This was not a sign of “a positive attitude”, noted the Japanese, with remarkable understatement.

Mr Kim was not the only Asian leader to display a bad attitude in recent weeks. Mahathir Mohamad, Malaysia’s prime minister, last week accused Jews of ruling the world “by proxy”. When columnists and politicians around the world condemned the remarks, he shrugged off their denunciations, claiming the furore only proved his point. This week he also complained that Mr Bush's preoccupations with security were dragging the APEC summit away from its economic agenda. That agenda had included plans to reduce the costs of doing business across borders by 5% over the next few years by, among other things, streamlining customs procedures and speeding up applications for export permits. But the summit's final declaration calls instead for port security to be tightened as part of the ongoing war against terrorism. Likewise, APEC has long aimed to free up investment between its members. But Tuesday's declaration is more concerned with stopping terrorists moving their money around the globe.

Dr Mahathir has long resented the West's interference in Asian economic affairs. Indeed, America has always promoted APEC as an alternative to the Malaysian leader’s calls for an East Asian economic alliance. James Baker, America's secretary of state at the time APEC was founded in 1989, hoped the alliance would mollify East Asia’s aspirations for greater co-operation without “drawing a line down the middle of the Pacific”, as he put it. Thus far, the Pacific remains largely undivided, but APEC has few other achievements to its name. In Bogor, Indonesia, in 1994, it set itself ambitious goals to free up trade and investment within the grouping. But the deadlines were pushed far into the future— 2010 for richer members, 2020 for poorer—and few countries show any will to meet them. “Unless progress is made, people will go around thinking APEC is just leaders going around in funny shirts once a year,” warned Peter Charlton, an Australian businessman and evidently not one to appreciate the specially commissioned Thai silk jackets APEC leaders wore for their final group photograph.

Indeed, as APEC falters, Dr Mahathir’s original vision seems to be resurfacing after all, according to Fred Bergsten of the Institute for International Economics. The ten members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) have held meetings with Japan, China and South Korea for seven years in a row. Last year, ASEAN began work on a trade agreement with China; this month, it signed similar accords with Japan and India. It also set out a bold vision to turn ASEAN into an Asian “economic community” inspired by the European common market. Individual countries within Asia, notably Thailand and Singapore, are also busy negotiating their own bilateral deals with key trading partners.

What, then, remains of East Asia's longstanding commitment to multilateral trade negotiations, embodied in the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and its forebears? The leaders assembled in Bangkok this week did acknowledge the “valuable work” done at the WTO's failed Cancún meeting last month. They also agreed that trade talks should pick up again from where they left off—using the draft agreement cobbled together the day before the Cancún talks collapsed—rather than starting again from scratch. But again, this consensus could barely contain Dr Mahathir, who described the Cancún breakdown as a “minor success” and urged the poorer world to offer its own agenda for the trade round.

Dr Mahathir is, as his people call him, “the old man” of the region. His remarks this week may be the parting shot of a veteran leader whose 22 years in power come to an end this month. But however offensive his rhetoric, Dr Mahathir's verbal broadsides will trouble Mr Bush much less than the missile diplomacy of North Korea's Mr Kim.



In what may become one of the biggest drug scandals in sporting history, samples given by athletes worldwide, including at the recent world championships in Paris, are to be re-tested for the presence of a new steroid that was designed to evade the testing regime

Reuters

ATHLETES have been forbidden from using artificial stimulants since the 1920s, and since the 1970s they have had to give urine samples to show they are not pumping up their muscles by injecting anabolic steroids—a class of synthetic drugs that promote tissue growth. But it now appears that runners and jumpers in several countries have been using a hitherto unknown steroid, tetrahydrogestrinone (THG), which is believed to have been designed specifically to evade the sporting authorities’ doping tests. On Wednesday October 22nd, America’s governing body for athletics, the USA Track & Field (USATF) confirmed reports that four American athletes, as yet unnamed, had tested positive for the drug. Britain’s fastest sprinter, Dwain Chambers (pictured here), also admitted having tested positive for the drug, though he denied having taken it knowingly.

A firm from the San Francisco area, BALCO, which supplies nutritional supplements to sportsmen (including Mr Chambers), has denied allegations that it concocted and distributed the new drug. A federal grand jury is investigating the firm and has subpoenaed a number of America’s best-known athletes, including two baseball stars, Jason Giambi and Barry Bonds, though no allegations of drug abuse have been made against them. It is still unclear how big the scandal will turn out to be. However, last week, Terry Madden, the head of the US Anti-Doping Agency, said: “I know of no other drug bust that is larger than this involving the number of athletes involved.”

THG was unknown until a sports coach anonymously sent a syringe full of the substance to a testing laboratory in the University of California, Los Angeles, in early June. A new test to detect the presence of the substance in body fluids was hurriedly developed. On Tuesday, the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA)—a body set up after a drugs scandal at the 1998 Tour de France—said it had sent details of how to test for THG to all accredited dope-testing laboratories throughout the world. Players in the Rugby World Cup, currently under way in Australia, will be tested for the substance.
Football frenzy
Oct 9th 2003
The road to Marathon
Oct 10th 2002
A drug scandal hits Swedish sport
Nov 8th 2001
Superhuman heroes
Jun 4th 1998

The World Anti-Doping Agency gives information on drugs in athletics and on its anti-doping measures. America's National Institute on Drug Abuse outlines the dangers of steroid abuse. The USATF announces a new "zero-tolerance" policy on doping.

Iran’s nuclear ambitions Oct 23rd 2003
Aid for Iraq Oct 23rd 2003
The APEC summit Oct 21st 2003
Northern Ireland’s peace process Oct 21st 2003
Mutual-fund scandals Oct 20th 2003
The Buttonwood column Oct 21st 2003
About Global Agenda




Anti-doping laws and their enforcement vary widely in different countries and between different sports in the same countries. That is why, on October 16th, a conference of the United Nations body, UNESCO, voted to create an international convention against doping, whose aim is to harmonise anti-doping laws around the world. The scandal over THG also comes as Rio Ferdinand, a member of England’s national soccer squad, faces the possibility of a lengthy ban, for failing to take a scheduled doping test last month.

For as long as there have been competitive sports, athletes have taken performance-enhancing substances, going back to the stimulating potions taken by Ancient Greek sportsmen. In the 19th century, cyclists and other endurance athletes kept themselves going with caffeine, alcohol and even strychnine and cocaine. In 1928, the precursor of the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF), became the first world sporting body to forbid stimulants. But the ban was ineffective because there was no way of testing for many of them. The invention of artificial hormones in the 1930s made the problem more severe.

In the 1960s, the world bodies for cycling and soccer became the first to introduce doping tests. However, there was no reliable test for steroids until the 1970s. Once it was introduced, there was a big rise in the number of athletes being disqualified, culminating in the scandal of Ben Johnson, who broke the world 100-metre sprint record at the 1988 Olympics, only to be stripped of his gold medal afterwards, when his urine sample showed the presence of steroids. Mr Johnson insisted that he was far from alone in using banned substances and he seems to have been right: in the 1990s, as improved doping tests made it harder to get away with such cheating, the results achieved by top-level athletes in some sports showed a notable decline.

So far it is unclear how long athletes have been taking THG, or how widespread is its abuse. The IAAF has said it will re-test samples taken at its world championships in Paris in August. This raises the prospect of a number of national heroes being stripped of their medals—if the scandal over THG goes as wide as the pessimists fear. The scandal this week prompted USATF to announce a “zero-tolerance” policy on doping, including plans to impose lifetime bans on athletes caught using illegal substances, rather than the current two-year bans.

The THG scandal also threatens to overshadow next year’s Olympics in Athens. Already there are worries that some of the transport links and other infrastructure that the Greek capital needs to host the games will not be completed in time. If the scandal leads to some of the world’s top athletes being absent from the games, it will dampen the celebrations over the Olympics’ return to their birthplace.

The side-effects of steroid abuse range from liver and kidney cancer to infertility, baldness and even transmission of HIV (if the syringes used to inject the drug are shared). But there seems no limit to the lengths that some athletes are driven to by their will to win. In the 1970s, some tried “blood boosting”—reinfusing themselves with their own blood to boost the level of oxygen, a practice banned by the International Olympic Committee in 1986. Some then turned to erythropoietin, a blood-enhancing drug. Though this was banned in 1990, a reliable test was not available until the 2000 Olympics. Now, though a test for THG has quickly been developed, there are worries that some athletes are taking human growth hormone. Teams of scientists in various countries are rushing to have a reliable test for this substance ready for next year’s Olympics. Even if they do, the pace of medical discovery means that more new substances capable of boosting athletic performance without detection are bound to follow. The race to keep up with the drug cheats looks like going on forever.

What was billed as an historic day in Northern Ireland’s peace process ended in confusion, with unionists rejecting as inadequate a further act of disarmament by the IRA


Get article background

OCTOBER 21ST was supposed to go down in history as a day when Northern Ireland’s peace process took a great leap forward. Following weeks of intensive, behind-the-scenes negotiations, there was meant to be a series of carefully choreographed announcements by the main parties that would lead to the resumption of the province’s power-sharing government, which was created under the Good Friday Agreement of 1998. This has been suspended for the past year, principally because the Irish Republican Army (IRA) refused to announce a definitive end to its long war against British rule in Northern Ireland (see table below). But although Tuesday was to have been the day the peace process got back on track, by the evening it was in disarray.
The Northern Ireland peace process
Aug 7th 2003
Double agents in Northern Ireland
May 15th 2003
Northern Ireland
May 2nd 2003
Northern Ireland's peace process
Apr 17th 2003
A partial IRA stand-down
Oct 24th 2002
The crisis in Northern Ireland's peace process
Oct 10th 2002
Crisis in Northern Ireland's peace process
Oct 10th 2002
Sinn Fein's embarrassments
Apr 25th 2002

Britain, Ireland

The UK government's Northern Ireland Office has been governing Northern Ireland since the suspension of the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Northern Ireland Executive. The main parties, the Ulster Unionists, Sinn Fein, the Democratic Unionists and the SDLP, give their responses. The Irish government and its Department of Foreign Affairs issue statements and information. The Northern Ireland Office gives information on the peace process and the progress of IRA decommissioning. CAIN, a University of Ulster service, provides source material on the conflict in Northern Ireland.

Iran’s nuclear ambitions Oct 23rd 2003
Aid for Iraq Oct 23rd 2003
Drugs in sport Oct 23rd 2003
The APEC summit Oct 21st 2003
Mutual-fund scandals Oct 20th 2003
The Buttonwood column Oct 21st 2003
About Global Agenda




The day had started well. The British government announced fresh elections to Northern Ireland’s parliament, to be held next month. Gerry Adams, the leader of Sinn Fein—the IRA’s political wing—then gave a speech welcoming this and stating his movement’s “total commitment” to using exclusively peaceful means. Next, the IRA itself confirmed Mr Adams’s pledge, said it had destroyed more of its weapons (it deactivated some arms in 2001 and 2002) and promised to complete its disarmament “at the earliest opportunity”. John de Chastelain, a retired Canadian general who has been overseeing disarmament in the province, then called a news conference to confirm that the IRA had destroyed a “considerably larger” number of arms than on the two previous occasions. But how many weapons? And how many did it still have? Under his confidentiality agreement with the IRA, explained Mr de Chastelain, he could not say.

After 80 minutes of deathly silence, David Trimble, the leader of the Ulster Unionist Party—the largest group representing the province’s Protestant majority—emerged to announce his disappointment that the IRA had not gone far enough. He gave the paramilitary group, and Mr de Chastelain, a week to provide further clarification. He made it clear that if they failed to do this, his party could not return to governing alongside Sinn Fein. Tony Blair and Bertie Ahern, the British and Irish prime ministers, who had flown to Belfast hoping to cap the day with congratulatory speeches and handshakes, eventually appeared before the cameras and talked nervously about a “glitch”. Mr Blair insisted the parties were “very, very close to what I think would be a quite historic day”, announcing a little later that further talks would be held, in the hope of a resolution in the “next few days”. Mr Ahern was more cautious, admitting that a resolution to the hitch “isn’t so obvious”.

What now? Mr Blair insisted that the elections would still go ahead. It would have been deeply embarrassing to call them off again, having already postponed them twice. Such a move would have infuriated not just Sinn Fein and the IRA, but also Northern Ireland’s Catholic, “nationalist” minority as a whole. But unless the Protestant, unionist majority can be satisfied of the IRA’s commitment to ending the armed struggle, a return to power-sharing will not be possible. Even if Mr Trimble were arm-twisted into accepting the IRA’s latest act of decommissioning without any further clarification, unionist voters would likely desert his Ulster Unionists in the elections, voting instead for the hardline Democratic Unionists, who would certainly refuse to govern alongside Sinn Fein.

If the stalemate continues, it will damage the already tarnished reputation of Mr Blair (who was given urgent hospital treatment last weekend for a heart condition). As his Conservative opponents pointed out, Tuesday’s fiasco was another example of the prime minister’s tendency to hype up announcements in advance, only for them to prove disappointing. Polls show that, after the Iraq war and the subsequent failure to find Saddam Hussein’s weapons of mass destruction, the public’s faith in Mr Blair has nosedived. A successful revival of Northern Ireland’s peace process might restore that faith. But as darkness fell on Belfast on Tuesday night, the chances of that seemed to have dimmed. 

A former fund manager has admitted to obstructing an investigation into improper mutual-fund trading, making him the first executive to face a criminal charge in the rapidly widening probe into the industry’s practices

UNTIL this summer, most of the anger generated by three years of falling share prices was directed at Wall Street and its investment banks. America’s fund managers, many of which are based in understated Boston, kept a low profile and largely avoided the flak. After all, their interests were wholly aligned with those of their clients: to increase the value of their portfolios, and thus their own fee income. Right? Not necessarily, it seems. Both Eliot Spitzer, New York’s crusading attorney-general, and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), America’s chief securities-regulator, have launched probes into the industry, and the states are starting to slap writs on fund managers suspected of wrongdoing. A combination of criminal charges from Mr Spitzer and the states, a new set of rules from the SEC and a separate slew of regulation from Capitol Hill looks likely to result in a thorough overhaul of American fund management.

The man at the centre of the latest fund scandal is James Connelly, a former senior executive at Fred Alger Management, a New Jersey-based fund group. On Thursday October 16th, Mr Connelly pleaded guilty to charges of obstructing an investigation by Mr Spitzer’s department into improper mutual-fund trading. The SEC also brought civil charges against Mr Connelly, accusing him of allowing certain customers to engage in “market timing”, ie, the rapid trading of mutual-fund shares. Mr Connelly settled these charges by paying a $400,000 fine (while admitting no wrongdoing). However, Mr Spitzer is seeking a custodial sentence of up to four years for the criminal charge. Mr Connelly is not the only fund manager in officials’ sights: last week, the state of Massachusetts issued subpoenas to three fund managers from Fidelity, Franklin Templeton Investments and Morgan Stanley, in an attempt to ascertain whether they helped another firm get around funds’ own prohibitions on market timing. The practice is not necessarily illegal, though it is often forbidden in firms’ own prospectuses because it tends to lower returns to long-term shareholders.
Mutual-fund fraud
Oct 9th 2003
A new regime for hedge funds
Oct 2nd 2003
Now he's after mutual funds
Sep 11th 2003
Regulators and mutual funds
Jul 24th 2003
Pension pain
Jul 3rd 2003
Tell us more
Jul 3rd 2003
The blame game
Jul 3rd 2003
Hedge funds
Mar 26th 2003
Mutual funds
Feb 7th 2003

United States

The SEC outlines its recommendations for the regulation of mutual funds. The Office of the New York Attorney General issues press statements on its investigations into mutual funds—use the search function using “mutual fund”. See also the US Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the House Committee on Financial Services. The Investment Company Institute provides information and analysis on the American mutual-fund industry.

Iran’s nuclear ambitions Oct 23rd 2003
Aid for Iraq Oct 23rd 2003
Drugs in sport Oct 23rd 2003
The APEC summit Oct 21st 2003
Northern Ireland’s peace process Oct 21st 2003
The Buttonwood column Oct 21st 2003
About Global Agenda




The latest moves come a month and a half after Mr Spitzer extracted $40m from Edward Stern to settle allegations that his hedge fund, Canary Capital, was allowed to trade in one of two ways beneficial to him, but costly to other investors. (Mr Stern admitted no wrongdoing.) In addition to accusations of market timing, Mr Spitzer alleged that Mr Stern was allowed to engage in “late trading”, ie, buying or selling shares at the daily price struck at 4pm, but taking advantage of after-market news. This is illegal. Three of the four firms alleged to have allowed Mr Stern’s trading—Bank of America, Bank One and Janus—conceded that there may have been improper trades, while Strong Capital, the fourth, has said that it will compensate other investors if an internal review discovers any wrongdoing.

Mr Spitzer is using the same tactics he employed to such effect when he spearheaded an investigation into conflicts of interest at investment banks. It starts with a high-profile charge sheet against firms (helped, if possible, by embarrassing, if not incriminating, e-mails), followed by criminal charges against targeted individuals and hefty fines for the institutions involved, without an admission of guilt. Such tactics worked against the banks, both because they have deep pockets and because they were desperate to put the episode behind them and rebuild tattered relationships with their big corporate clients.

The fund management industry is responding less calmly to the assault on its integrity. Vanguard, one of America’s biggest fund managers, for instance, reacted indignantly to the charges aimed at the industry. A note on the firm’s website declared that charges of inappropriate trading “would fly in the face of everything Vanguard stands for in terms of fiduciary responsibility, ethics and integrity”. This tetchiness may stem from the fact that, even before the current scandals, fund managers were nervous about their ability to draw in and keep new money from investors. The industry is now more mature than it was in the heady 1990s, and so fund managers have to compete harder for a steadier, slower-growing pool of money. Moreover, many investors have been put off by the rocky ride for shares since 2000 and have switched to other types of fund (see chart).

Most fund managers think the SEC’s renewed focus on the industry, when added to Mr Spitzer’s probes, will only make it harder for them to attract new investors. William Donaldson, the SEC’s chairman, recently published some proposed rule amendments that would curb late trading and market timing. Moreover, the SEC is also planning to require funds to publish their lists of holdings four times a year rather than twice, according to the Wall Street Journal.

Congress has also been examining the industry. A congressional committee has proposed a law requiring that commissions paid to salespeople to flog funds be disclosed in the spirit of transparency. Currently, what is classified as a “suitable” investment is broadly defined, and so a salesperson can get away with recommending a product that will net him a high commission even if it has a poor track record. This practice has gone hand-in-hand with a general increase in the fees charged by fund managers, despite an increase in competition and in the number of funds under management, which should have led to a fall in fees. This paradox is unlikely to escape regulators’ attention as their investigations intensify. Fund managers may soon find that a few shabby practices that benefited them little will cost them lots in the long term.

LAST weekend, Buttonwood took his daughters to see “Finding Nemo”, a cartoon about a clown fish looking for his son (Nemo) who has swum off and been scooped up by a diver. The father is aided in his quest by Dory, a regal blue tang (whatever that might be) with short-term memory problems. Suffice to say that the film was jolly, but Dory’s condition struck a chord. Investors in the shares of companies involved in high-techery of one sort or another seem to be similarly afflicted. Put bluntly, the tech bubble is back. This time, the moves have been a bit more discriminate, so far; the claims less grandiose, as yet; and the effects on other companies less insidious, for now. But the extremity of the moves, the ludicrousness of the valuations, the spuriousness of the reasoning: Buttonwood freely confesses that, faint though the echo of the past might be, it makes him purr with pleasure.
Beyond the bubble
Oct 9th 2003
The return of tech stocks
Oct 9th 2003
Spending on information technology
Oct 2nd 2003
Banking on the technology cycle
Sep 4th 2003
The tech industry
Jun 19th 2003
The fortune of the commons
May 8th 2003
Cold killer application
May 8th 2003
Online commerce
May 7th 2003

China, United States

Iran’s nuclear ambitions Oct 23rd 2003
Aid for Iraq Oct 23rd 2003
Drugs in sport Oct 23rd 2003
The APEC summit Oct 21st 2003
Northern Ireland’s peace process Oct 21st 2003
Mutual-fund scandals Oct 20th 2003
About Global Agenda




You might remember that Nasdaq, the bellwether index of the high-tech world, hit an all-time high of just over 5,000 in March 2000. With the benefit of hindsight, the fact that the starched Morgan Stanley went dress-down when Nasdaq hit that round number should have signalled a top to investors with a toehold on sanity, even if AOL’s funny-money “takeover” of Time Warner did not. Stocks on Nasdaq fell a lot after that, as did just about every other stock that had been touched by technology. Spending on computers and software collapsed when the bubble burst. So did many of the companies that relied on them. But it seems that the hardened technology investor, far from being chastened by the intrusion of hard economics, merely thought his timing was a little awry.

Thus it has been that, having touched a low of 1,114 in October last year, Nasdaq has already climbed some 70%. This being an index, with winners and losers, some of the rises have been eye-popping. Most eye-popping of all has been a company called Evolving Systems, whose shares have evolved upwards by over 5,000% from their low last year. Buttonwood admits to never having heard of this company before, but according to its website it is “a leading provider of innovative software solutions to [America’s] largest telecom providers”. More heartening to aficionados of techno-speak is that Evolving Systems “delivers complex, mission critical software solutions that include our products and ServiceXpress integration”. Actually, of the top 20 Nasdaq performers this year, Buttonwood has heard only of Ask Jeeves, which almost certainly says more about his technological inadequacies than the companies themselves. Clued-up investors have clearly heard of them and, more to the point, like what they have heard: even the twentieth-best performer, a company called SMTEK International, is up by 1,477%.

Three on the list—NetEase, Sohu and Sina (all up over 2,000%)—neatly combine technology, telecoms and the “China play”. The three, all based in China, earn revenues from text messaging in the Middle Kingdom, which, being cheaper than phoning, has become the communication of choice there. This year, the Chinese will apparently send some 200 billion text messages, which seems a lot, but then there are a lot of them. “I don’t think this is a bubble,” NetEase’s chief financial officer, Denny Lee, was reported as saying by Knight Ridder, a news agency.

Far from being solely an American dream, indeed, the return of the tech bubble is very much a worldwide phenomenon. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx telecoms and technology indices are up by 39% and 60% respectively from their lows last year. In Japan, shares in companies like Softbank and Hikari Tsushin have spun into the stratosphere. Among other things, the latter sells mobile phones, which makes it a tech play of sorts. Its shares are up by 633% from their low. Softbank’s boss, Masayoshi Son, was once improbably touted by the Japanese press as that country’s answer to Bill Gates. The group’s shares are up by 670% from their low, and a couple of weeks ago were the most heavily traded on the planet.

Possibly, such stocks were oversold, having climbed too close to the sun in the first place. And both Softbank and Hikari Tsushin are still down by 90% or so from their peaks. The same is true for most of the other shares that have climbed so spectacularly in recent months. But then, few if any of them are exactly cheap because they don’t make much money, if any. Nasdaq as a whole has a price-to-earnings (p/e) ratio of 39, which means that it will take 39 years for the average company to earn enough profits to repay investors. For many companies, it will take far longer: in the case of Yahoo!, an internet portal, for example, about 124 years according to the p/e numbers. Softbank, which owns a big slice of Yahoo! Japan, doesn’t have a p/e multiple because it is losing money. Yahoo! Japan does make some money, but not much, and thus has a p/e multiple of 139—and a higher market capitalisation than all of the country’s television stations and Dentsu, its biggest advertising agency, combined.

Such extreme valuations are odd, to say the least, since it is unlikely that more than a small fraction of these companies will be alive ten years from now, let alone 100. As Fred Hickey, the editor of High-Tech Strategist, neatly put it in a recent newsletter: “You cannot be a long-term technology investor because in the long term almost all of the stocks are dead.” Almost all of the big technology companies he tracked 20 years ago have ceased to be. Investors are presumably betting that their favoured stocks will not be among the deceased. Who, for example, could possibly think that Amazon will be among them now that its boss, Jeff Bezos, has said that Amazon is no longer just an online bookshop but “earth’s most customer-centric organisation”? Little wonder that Amazon had a p/e of 105 at last count.

Possibly, too, some of these heroic multiples will be made to look more timid by a sharp rise in profits. Net profits for Intel, for example, more than doubled in the third quarter, compared with the same quarter last year. A number of other tech firms made money for the first time in years. Certainly, those that have survived the carnage of the past three years are a lot leaner. According to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an outplacement firm, about 470,000 jobs were cut last year in the technology sector.

There is also evidence that technology spending, in America at least, is picking up. The question is: by how much? Less than enthusiastic investors are hoping for, probably. For one thing, companies’ technology spending is now being watched ever more vigilantly by chief financial officers, who might rightly wonder why their companies need to spend more on new technology when they are being so productive with the existing stuff. Moreover, the fall in technology spending has seemed more pronounced because the price of technology is falling.

Which certainly can’t be said of shares in companies that supply it. Every halfway decent earnings announcement is taken as a reason to bid a stock up further, as though these heady rises are bound to continue for the foreseeable future. Doubtless it will continue that way, with investors bidding shares ever upwards as economic recovery fuels their fantasies, and then offloading them on to the next eager punter. Margin debt on Nasdaq—money borrowed to buy shares—is almost as high as it was in March 2000. Of such joys are bubbles blown, until reality dawns and investors all wonder why they hadn’t sold earlier.

Send comments on this article to Buttonwood


Ways to break the tyranny of oil are coming into view. Governments need to promote them

“THE Stone Age did not end for lack of stone, and the Oil Age will end long before the world runs out of oil.” This intriguing prediction is often heard in energy circles these days. If greens were the only people to be expressing such thoughts, the notion might be dismissed as Utopian. However, the quotation is from Sheikh Zaki Yamani, a Saudi Arabian who served as his country's oil minister three decades ago. His words are rich in irony. Sheikh Yamani first came to the world's attention during the Arab oil embargo of the United States, which began three decades ago this week and whose effects altered the course of modern economic and political history. Coming from such a source, the prediction, one assumes, can hardly be a case of wishful thinking.

Yet a generation after the embargo began, the facts seem plain: the world remains addicted to Middle Eastern oil (see article). So why is Sheikh Yamani predicting the end of the Oil Age? Because he believes that something fundamental has shifted since that first oil shock—and, sadly for countries like Saudi Arabia, he is quite right. Finally, advances in technology are beginning to offer a way for economies, especially those of the developed world, to diversify their supplies of energy and reduce their demand for petroleum, thus loosening the grip of oil and the countries that produce it.
Creating coal is inefficient
Oct 23rd 2003
OPEC: still holding customers over a barrel
Oct 23rd 2003

Saudi Arabia

The environment

Oil

America's Congress is debating a bill based on President Bush’s energy plan. See also the International Energy Agency and OPEC.




Hydrogen fuel cells and other ways of storing and distributing energy are no longer a distant dream but a foreseeable reality. Switching to these new methods will not be easy, or all that cheap, especially in transport, but with the right policies it can be made both possible and economically advantageous. Unfortunately, many of the rich world's governments—and above all the government of America, the world's biggest oil consumer—are reluctant to adopt the measures that would speed the day when the Saudis' worst fears come true.

The $7 trillion heist

If treating the West's addiction to oil will be costly, is it really worth doing? To be sure. Petro-addiction imposes mighty costs of its own. First, there is the political risk of relying on the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Oil still has a near-monopoly hold on transport. If the supply is cut off even for a few days, modern economies come to a halt, as Britain discovered when tax protestors blockaded some domestic oil depots two years ago. And despite what sound like large investments in new oil fields in Russia and elsewhere, Saudi Arabia's share of the world oil market will actually grow over the next two decades simply because it has such huge reserves of cheap oil. Geology has granted two-thirds of the world's proven oil reserves to Saudi Arabia and four of its neighbours. Because of this continuing concentration of supply, the risk of a disruption to oil flows will continue to be a threat, and may even rise.

That points to a second sort of cost. According to one American government estimate, OPEC has managed to transfer a staggering $7 trillion in wealth from American consumers to producers over the past three decades by keeping the oil price above its true market-clearing level. That estimate does not include all manner of subsidies doled out to the fossil-fuel industry, ranging from cheap access to oil on government land to the ongoing American military presence in the Middle East.

The final disguised cost of oil is the damage it does to the environment and human health. Unlike power plants, which are few in number and so easier to regulate, cars are ubiquitous and much more difficult to control. The transport sector is a principal source of global emissions of greenhouse gases.

The only long-term solution to this connected set of problems is to reduce the world's reliance on oil. Achieving this once seemed pie-in-the-sky. No longer. Hydrogen fuel cells are at last becoming a viable alternative. These are big batteries that run cleanly for as long as hydrogen is supplied, and which might power anything in or around your home—notably, your car. Hydrogen is a fuel that, like electricity, can be made from a variety of sources: fossil fuels such as coal and natural gas, renewables, even nuclear power. Every big car maker now has a fuel-cell programme, and every big oil firm is busy investigating how best to feed these new cars their hydrogen.

Another alternative likely to become available in a few years is “bioethanol”. Many cars (quite a few of them in America) already run on a mixture of petrol and ethanol. The problem here is cost. At the moment, the ethanol has to be heavily subsidised. But that might alter when biotechnology delivers new enzymes that can make ethanol efficiently from just about any sort of plant material. Then, the only limit will be how much plant material is available (see article).

All in good time

Such changes will not occur overnight. It will take a decade or two before either fuel cells or bioethanol make a significant dent in the oil economy. Still, they represent the first serious challenges to petrol in a century. If hydrogen were made from renewable energy (or if the carbon dioxide generated by making it from fossil fuels were sequestered underground), then the cars and power plants of the future would release no local pollution or greenhouse gases. Because bioethanol is made from plants, it merely “borrows” its carbon from the atmosphere, so cannot add to global warming. What is more, because hydrogen can be made in a geographically distributed fashion, by any producer anywhere, no OPEC cartel or would-be successor to it could ever manipulate the supplies or the price. There need never be another war over energy.

It all sounds very fine. What then is the best way to speed things up? Unfortunately, not through the approach currently advocated by President George Bush and America's Congress, which this week has been haggling over a new energy bill. America's leaders are still concerning themselves almost exclusively with increasing the supply of oil, rather than with curbing the demand for it while increasing the supply of alternatives. Some encouragement for new technologies is proposed, but it will have little effect: bigger subsidies for research are unlikely to spur innovation in industries with hundreds of billions of dollars in fossil-fuel assets. The best way to curb the demand for oil and promote innovation in oil alternatives is to tell the world's energy markets that the “externalities” of oil consumption—security considerations and environmental issues alike—really will influence policy from now on. And the way to do that is to impose a gradually rising gasoline tax.

By introducing a small but steadily rising tax on petrol, America would do far more to encourage innovation and improve energy security than all the drilling in Alaska's wilderness. Crucially, this need not be, and should not be, a matter of raising taxes in the aggregate. The proceeds from a gasoline tax ought to be used to finance cuts in other taxes—this, surely, is the way to present them to a sceptical electorate.

Judging by the debate going on in Washington, a policy of this kind is a distant prospect. That is a great shame. Still, the pace of innovation already under way means that Sheikh Yamani's erstwhile colleagues in the oil cartel might themselves be wise to invest some of their money in the alternatives. One day, these new energy technologies will toss the OPEC cartel in the dustbin of history. It cannot happen soon enough.


 	
Printable page

E-mail this
Letters
Oct 23rd 2003
From The Economist print edition


The Economist, 25 St James's Street, London SW1A 1HG
FAX: 020 7839 2968     E-MAIL: letters@economist.com

Branson's Concorde offer

SIR – You say that Virgin Atlantic would like to purchase Concorde for £1 purely as a publicity stunt, only flying it for a few months (“After Concorde”, October 18th). This is absolute rubbish. My final offer, in writing to Lord Marshall, was over £5m ($8.4m) for BA's fleet of Concordes. I can assure you that we at Virgin Atlantic had a perfectly robust commercial plan for Concorde based on acquiring the entire fleet from BA and we would have flown it for many years to come. As well as Concorde's current destinations of New York and Barbados, we would have added others like Dubai.

While we would have concentrated on the premium market, we would have ensured also that a few seats per flight were available to the general public at a much cheaper price. My feelings about Concorde simply reflect those of the British public, who, having funded Concorde, want to see it continue to fly—whether commercially or on a heritage basis—for many years to come.
Sir Richard Branson
London

Cooking Canada's goose



SIR – It is a shame that, despite its coolness, Canada is still not good enough for The Economist. You find it necessary to measure the degree of our success against the benchmark of America—strictly in cash terms. We may earn less than our neighbours but we do not have a large number of entertainers, professional athletes and overpaid executives that would raise our average pay.

We do not need a huge army because we do not go about deposing democratically elected governments or invading sovereign countries. As far as being overtaxed goes, most Canadians do not mind paying more for universal health care, universal access to post-secondary education and much safer streets. There are politicians who want to see Canada more like America. For decades, Canadians have kept these people where they belong: in opposition.
Abraham Barrios
Guelph, Canada

SIR –“Canada enjoys a free ride in defence from the United States” you insist. Please advise us of the countries that would attack Canada were it not for the might of the United States military.
Roy Palmer
Quebec

SIR – You say that Canadians “seem content” (“A new spirit”, September 27th). I can assure you that many, including me, are not. Canada has a large minority that thinks someone else will always pay the bills. It shows its ignorance by supporting everything from publicly owned utilities to the costly CBC media network. Different levels of government in Canada compete to spend my tax money, while the increasingly irrelevant federal government is always covering up scandals involving misuse of funds (usually in Quebec). Canadians suffer from acute and insufferable political correctness. This is often mistaken for tolerance.
David Page
Kingston, Canada

Enough Said

SIR – Your obituary of Edward Said does justice to his extraordinary career (October 4th). Unfortunately, it shares the moral obtuseness that has characterised Mr Said's equally elegant quest for justice for the Palestinians. In 1947, the United Nations suggested partitioning British Palestine into a Jewish and Arab state, thus giving both national movements half a loaf. The Jews accepted; the Palestinians did not and went to war against the nascent Jewish state and the UN plan. Had they accepted, there would have been a Palestinian state since 1948 and no Palestinian refugees.

Never in all of Mr Said's writings is there a hint that the Palestinians were wrong to reject the UN-sponsored compromise and your encomium equally overlooks this root cause of the refugee problem.
Shlomo Avineri
Jerusalem

Less for the boss

SIR – I am glad to see you taking up the cudgels against excessive executive pay but I fear that your solution is set to fail (“Where's the stick?”, October 11th). You say that shareholders must take responsibility but those with the influence are pension funds and other big institutions. Many of their bosses are feeding from the same somewhat incestuous trough and are unlikely to favour wholeheartedly a reduction of their own possible future earnings.
Sue Gillie
London

SIR – The simple solution to bosses' pay is for boards of directors to select a set of qualified candidates (say five) and ask them for a proposal on how they would run the company and what they would charge. A little competition would soon bring compensation down to earth.
Jesse Goldbaum
Woodland Hills, California

State of matrimony

SIR – The importance of Maria Shriver at Arnold Schwarzenegger's side recalls a wonderful piece of medieval wisdom (“Arnie! Arnie!”, October 11th). Bella gerant alii; tu, Austria[cus] felix, nube: “Let others wage war; you, lucky Austria[n], get married.”
Davide Cantoni
Berkeley, California

SIR – Your reference to voter initiatives that have “hog-tied” the state government in California is apt (“Has it come to this?”, October 4th). An initiative regulating the size of pig pens is indeed now circulating here.
Daniel Mitchell
Los Angeles

Working from home

SIR – I am surprised that you omit an obvious reason why many young Caribbean professionals are returning home (“Brain gain”, October 11th). Changes in immigration policy, introduced as a result of the September 11th attacks, make it harder for them to remain in America after finishing their studies. Hence, they return in the hope of finding work. To a lesser extent, some are returning fuelled by a desire to bring about positive change. As a Caribbean woman studying away from home, I look forward to following their example.
Janelle Prevost
Cambridge, Massachusetts

Viewing figures

SIR – We protest strongly against the article on television in India (“Star turns”, September 27th). The way data have been put together is a complete travesty. You say that “Star News, too, is gaining market share. According to TAM Media Research it now reaches 27% of viewers, just behind AajTak, with 29%.” In fact, AajTak reaches out to 42.4% of cable and satellite viewers in Hindi-speaking markets, as opposed to the 32% reach of Star News. Since AajTak's launch in December 2000, its all-India market share has never been in the 20s and Star News has not once crossed the 25% mark.

Far from being a victim of the government's policy and vested Indian interests, as you have tried hard to project, Star News has in fact been treated with great leniency in spite of its blatant attempt to make a mockery of the government's media policy.
Uday Shankar
News director
AajTak
New Delhi

test the test is the test is the test test is the test
